sound basics lesson content (#39)
ecoacoustics/website: content/resources/lessons/sound-basics/presentation/index.md

$ db = -70dB $

</div>

> >Notes:

Reviewer: Should always be one trailing space after a `>`, so `> Notes` not `>Notes`. Applies to all lines in this file

>- We capture sound waves using a microphone. The microphone is plugged into a
>  receiver, which performs an analogue to digital conversion.
>- The digital signal is captured, which we typically store in a WAVE file.

> >- We can then use audio software to display this waveform. The waveform will have
> >  values that relate to the amplitude of the signal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>- We can then use audio software to display this waveform. The waveform will have
> lots of 
>  values (samples) that quantize (measure) the amplitude of the signal.
```

{{% /fragment %}}

>Notes:
>- Decibels are always the log of a ratio.

> >- We typically scale based on a pain threshold of 20 Pa, and a reference value of

Reviewer: Do you really mean pain? Perhaps gain? Otherwise, a reference please?

Author: I have now removed this part, I think I misunderstood what I was reading.

>  0.00002 Pa = 0 dB, which is considered to be the softest sound level a human ear can

> >  detect / near total silence. 

Reviewer: hmmm, doubt that this is really 0 dB, though it looks like this is not your fault, you're just copying from example above. It looks like `≈0 dB` is more accurate. 

Add a link maybe, this is cool: https://www.epd.gov.hk/epd/noise_education/web/text/ENG_EPD_HTML/m1/intro_5.html#:~:text=Human%20ear%20can%20perceive%20a,called%20the%20Threshold%20of%20Hearing.

Author: Mm ok yea, I'm not sure what source I originally used, in your link they also say this:
> the decibel or dB scale is used. The scale uses the hearing threshold of 20 μPa or 20 x 10-6 Pa as the reference level. This is defined as 0 dB.

Can use whichever you think is more appropriate, = or ≈ ?
And I'll add this link, it's nice.

-   [mobilebeat.com/audio-bit-depth-and-sample-rate](https://www.mobilebeat.com/audio-bit-depth-and-sample-rate)

{{% /row %}}

>Notes:
> - An analogue signal is a continuous line
> - We use sampling or quantization to capture various points along that signal
> - Can then transform the time-discrete signal with quantization, or a quantized
>   signal with sampling, into a digital signal.
> - The sample rate refers to how many samples are captured each second. For
>   example, a sampling rate of 22050 means that each second, 22050 samples are
>   captured.
> - The bit depth refers to how many bits of information are stored for each

> >   sample.

Reviewer: sample rate and bit depth are both resolution parameters along different axes. Your explanation is accurate but missing an important point: lower bit depth means less accurate quantization, higher means more accurate quantization. Or in other words: bit depth is affects dynamic range.

Author: thanks, updated to include this extra detail

Maximum frequency in spectrograms = sample rate / 2 = <mark>Nyquist</mark>

>Notes:
> - The maximum frequency in a spectrogram is the sample rate divided by 2. This

> >   is also known as the Nyquist frequency.

Reviewer: putting the cart before the donkey.

Explain the Nyquist theorem a little and that will explain why maximum affective frequency is half of the sample rate.

{ style="scale: 150%" }
{{% /fragment %}}
{{% /stack %}}

>Notes:
> - We can visualise a waveform as a spectrogram, by applying a STFT (Short-time
>   Fourier transform).
> - There are different settings, such as window size, and window type. It will be
>  important to become familiar with understanding these settings and adjusting
>  them where appropriate. 
> - When visualising sound waves as spectrograms, there exists a trade-off between
>   the temporal resolution and the frequency resolution.
> - We can have either a  high resolution in the time domain, but the frequency
>   resolution will be lower. Or a high frequency resolution, with a lower temporal
>   resoltuion. Or somewhere in between for both.
> - This trade-off is principally determined by setting the window

> >   length. The window length is expressed in samples.

Reviewer: window length should be a power of two

Author: thanks, added

<object type="image/svg+xml" style="width: 100%;" data="./spectrogram-tradeoffs.drawio.svg"></object>
{.align-center}

>Notes:
> - Consider a window size of 256, with a sample rate (SR) of 22050.
> - Lets check the temporal resolution:
>   - TR = Window size / SR

> >   - 256 / 22050 = 0.01160997732, which is ~11 ms. That is a good

Reviewer: don't abbreviate, use math notation
